
The Bitcoin community is having a healthy debate around blocksize. This requires a hard-fork.

Here is a proposed solution to the blocksize debate:

* Have a simple strategy for the technical solution
* Have a simple strategy for consensus around the proposal

== Technical Solution ==
For the technical solution, I recommend the simplest technique of geometric expansion.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_array#Geometric_expansion_and_amortized_cost

In plain english, it means doubling the blocksize at each agreed upon block number / height.
For the first agreement this means going from 1MB to 2MB. There would have to be an agreement
for any of these changes. I also strongly encourage that a block
height is used. Dealing with time on a computer in a distributed system just adds risk.

<pre>
uint32_t GetMaxBlockSize(int64_t nBlockHeight) {
    static const uint32_t initial = 1000000;

    // Approximately Oct. 1, 2015    
    if (nBlockHeight >= 376836) {
      return initial * 2;
    }
    
    return inital;
}
</pre>

== Real World Consensus ==

In order for this change to occur, there has to be an agreement by the majority of parties that provide
infrastructure for the bitcoin network. Unfortunately, there is not a technical solution to getting this
kind of consensus. I believe that one of the goals of this debate is to get to consensus quickly. We
need some forward progress which will give the network more time and data.

I recommend a public document signing by the majority of parties. I think this will work
because I believe that most major parties want to cooperate towards an improved network.
I also do not believe that an automated voting scheme will be agreed upon at this time.

All parties get together on a moderated mailing list or forum. A single utf-8 text file or BIP is proposed. 
It concisely states that all parties agree to a blocksize of X. They all also agree to do this for block Y on the
testnet and Z in production. Again, the document should be as unambiguous and simple as possible.

The representatives for the major bitcoin software packages and major miners would each have a representative listed in the document. Each organization signs the document. The hash of the document is then posted to the blockchain. 

In plain english... anybody who wants a block increase to 2MB gets on a moderated mailing list/forum. If the group
represents a majority of infrastructure, then they move to the next step. The group agrees to the block heights for 
the change. One of the members proposes a simple doc. The group modifies the document to get internet majority agreement. Now the group orchestrates a signing. Post to result the blockchain.

This public document is not enforcable. However, I believe that public support for a small simple change is all that is needed to get *all* parties to implement. Those that are not in the agreement will quickly realize that they risk their incentives for participating in the network.

==How would this play out?==

A mailing list or forum is used to coordinate the change. The only variable is the block number and timestamp.
I recommend October 1st, 2015. However, jgarzik's proposal of November is probably fine too.

The document gets signed and posted to the blockchain.

The argument is now over, consensus is achieved. Everybody, starts working on the implementation. There is ample time, so the 
code gets deployed.

On the day of the change, people will probably avoid making large transactions. Some people should create blocks that hit the new limit. After several hours, the dust will settle.

Congratulations, we made forward progress.

At some point, a proposal is put forth for another doubling from 2MB to 4MB. If the majority of parties agree that this is needed, then they start over. Again, they only need to coordinate on the time for the change. All of the other variables are decided.


== Reasoning ==

=== Flag Days ===

Regardless of the handwaving about extreme trustless decentralization, the Bitcoin network requires coordination and cooperation in order to respond to threats or holes in the design. Also, most of the Bitcoin network infrastructure is represented by
a relative handful of code bases.

It turns out that this is an old problem with some old solutions. The internet itself has and continues to have similar issues and events. They were called 'flag days' when the entire internet had to move to a new protocol. This was achieved with public coordination and cooperation by the primary or large entities on the internet. If it works for them, it should work here too.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_day_(computing)

== Why the geometric strategy?==
The strategy picked is the simplest, effective technical solution. It is time tested. It has also been proposed by quite a few already.

== Why the **manual** geometric strategy?==
I think an automated doubling or automated increase is too big of a pill to swallow right now. Getting people to agree 
on a single change is much easier than openning the door to uncertainty.

== Why such a small change? ==

"Baby steps"

Moving from 1 meg to 2 megs might be a much easier pill to swallow for many people. Already others have picked up on this (BIP 102). The agreement on this might be very quick and have a clear majority (over 95%).

If instead we tried to achieve some optimal consensus on a size, the process might take a long time. The longer it takes, the more fragile the consensus process becomes.

Just implementing a simple change will help the network, right now vs. months in the future. This buys us more time for things like sidechains or the lightning network, etc. It also allows us to collect data for arguments in favor of or against further changes like this.


== Why the mailing list/forum vs. blockchain voting ==
I think that would be a great thing to figure out in the future, but I don't believe it is feasible now. A carefully moderated mailing list/forum will get consensus by all the necessary parties much faster.


=== Thanks for reading ===

I would appreciate and will reply to any feedback about this in the coming days.

